Hey everybody, welcome back to Boost
Your Income with Bootstrap to WordPress.
This lecture is called Styling
the Hero Section with CSS.
[MUSIC]
Okay, now let's style this up.
It doesn't look that good.
It doesn't look like that.
Let's make it look like that.
Cool.
You're gonna wanna add a new CSS file in
your CSS folder called custom.css.
And you're gonna have to
reference that CSS file.
Let's put it under font icon.
Link href, assets, CSS, custom.css,
rel, and that will be style sheet.
Great.
Put a little comment there, 'Custom CSS.',
great.
Very readable.
Perfect.
So let's go ahead and open that up.
Nice and blank.
First thing I'm going to do is add some
color references and a comment here.
There we go, nice and
big so you can read that.
Color references.
So the green color is, salmon color is
this, and the blue-gray color is that.
So we'll be referencing this
throughout our CSS just to
make it a little bit easier.
Lets add a comment here and
lets say general.
I like putting comments.
It makes the CSS look a little
bit more organized and clean.
We're gonna style the body here and
to address that issue where
the navigation seemed like it was sucking
the content up into it just
give the body margin-top of 50.
That should fix that problem,
there you go.
Font family proxima-nova, and
remember it won't really work
because we're not on local host.
But it will fall back to Railway, once
we get this website to PHP it will work.
Sans-serif, there we go.
And we're going to make
the font size 16 pixels,
just like the base font
size will be 16 pixels.
Background for body will be url and
then ../img/tile.jpg.
We're jumping up a directory and
then down into image, top left repeat.
We have a graphic here in the images
folder that is called tile.
It is basically a background texture.
Save it and you'll see what I mean.
There we go.
So we have our background texture,
we have this looks a little bit better
up here, and our font is Railway.
Cool.
Let's add another flag here,
CSS comment, and this will be GLOBAL.
And in GLOBAL, let's just do
a little bit of typography here.
H1, h2, three, four, five, and six.
Let's give these some sexy text.
You can copy that out,
webkit font smoothing and text rendering.
And font weight will be bold so
now we'll have some sexy,
smooth headers that are bold.
And let's go ahead and
style the rest of our headers here.
So I want the level one heading
to be font size of 3 en.
This isn't just off the top of my head.
I did try it out beforehand to
see what it would look like.
Looks good.
You can play around with it if you want.
H1 and h2, I want these guys
to have margin of 0 0 40.
So we have some 40 pixels on
the bottom of the h1 and two.
Level three heading, let's give that one
margin 20 pixels and 0,
which is 20 pixels on top and bottom.
Now let's go to our h4 and
say font size 18 pixels.
Okay.
So that's just overriding our Bootstrap
styles, cuz they have
default styles in there, and
I just wanted to override
those with my own styles.
Cuz it will match the design that I have.
Let's check it out.
There we go.
Looking a bit better here.
Let's go back.
Now why don't we create a new flag here
specifically for our hero section.
We'll add some more typography a bit
later in an upcoming lecture, but
let's start with the hero
cuz that's what we're on.
Okay.
And in that hero,
we're gonna select that ID.
Now background is gonna have
url ../img/hero-bg.jpg.
It's gonna be 50% so in the semi centered.
And then repeat fixed.
Save that.
Let's check it out.
There we go.
Starting to look a bit better.
Min-height.
I want it to be a minimum
height of 500 pixels.
I want the padding to be 40 pixels on
the top and bottom, not on the sides.
And the color of the content be white.
Again, let's have sexy text this one.
Let's check it out.
Cool.
That's looking much better.
Okay, now let's move down here and
let's do a little bit
more #hero and then .hero-text.
And let's give the hero-text
a margin-top of 30 pixels.
Check it out.
Here we go.
Gave this a little bit more margin up here
so it's a bit more centered vertically.
Okay.
Lets select that price timeline.
And let's give it margin 30 pixels
in the top, zero in the side,
60 on the bottom, text-align center.
Now let's select, price-timeline .price.
So we're selecting those
individual blocks.
Display inline-block margin will be zero,
2%,
zero zero, so
I'm having margin right be 2%.
The width will be 30% and that's because
there's gonna be three of them and
I want them to be roughly 30% wide so
that they can stack up beside each other.
Background.
We're going to use that
blue-gray right there.
Paste that.
Let's have some padding, ten, 20, and 30.
Let's check it out.
Okay, they're getting there.
They're looking a bit better.
Now I want to design a couple things here.
Position relative and vertical align top.
Vertical align top is gonna help
when to keep these things all
vertically aligned at the top because
once you shrink the window here, because
there's more content in some of these,
they might not be vertically aligned,
that will just help address that
issue should it ever come up.
Okay.
Because they're in line block,
they'll float up beside each other,
rather than using float.
Cool little trick.
Now, let's say price timeline,
.price.active so
the price with the active class,
that will be #dd5638;
which is the salmon color.
There it is.
All right a few more styles here to
make these price timelines look good.
#price-timeline price and
we're going to select that span.
Background is going to be 101010.
Display we're gonna make it block,
height 70, width 70, text-align center,
line height 70, font-weight bold.
Font-size 24 pixels.
Border-radius 100%.
This is gonna make it a circle.
And we're gonna have to use
some webkit-border-radius so
we can also have it be a bit
more cross browser compatible.
Moz-border-radius: 100%.
Position: absolute.
Bottom: negative 35 pixels.
Left: 50% Margin left, negative 35.
Now before you go hold on Brad,
what are you doing,
let me show you what this looks like and
then let me explain what I just did.
Method to my madness, guys.
Okay, do you see how these
circles are now in the center?
This looks nice, this is CSS circle.
It's in the center of our price box.
All of them are.
How did I do it?
Well, let me explain.
First thing's first, I see here I used
font family, that should be font weight.
Great.
Okay so we got our background.
Display block height/width.
Basically this will allow me to
have a box that is 70 by 70.
Text align,
I want the text to be right in the center.
Line height, I want this to
be vertically aligned center.
So line height, make it the height of
the box, and the text will be dead center.
There it is.
Bold, all good.
Border radius, 100%.
This means it will be a circle no matter
the size of the height and width.
Position, I want it to be absolute.
And I want it to be bottom negative 35,
because if I just had it be zero,
you'll see like that, no good.
I want it to be half of
the height of the actual circle.
So 35, that will be dead center, left,
because we're positioning absolute,
left will push it 50% over but
then it won't look good.
So again, here let me show you,
let me remove this.
That doesn't look nice.
We want it to be centered.
How do we center it?
Margin left, negative,
the width of the box itself.
Now we're dead center in height and
dead center in width.
Make sure that the parent element,
price, is positioned relative.
That's why we have that, so we can
absolutely position our element within it.
A little bit of CSS, but
I'm assuming you guys are rock stars
at this point with HTML and CSS.
If it got you sweating a little bit,
no worries.
That's good, no pain, no gain, right?
Hopefully that made sense.
Feel free to pause.
Go back, check it out.
Otherwise, if you wanna skip
this part altogether, you can.
You could just use the course files and
skip this section and
go to another section.
That's okay.
If you like sweating a little bit,
hang on tight guys.
Little bit more styles.
Price-timeline h4.
Margin: 0 0 10,
that means ten pixels on the bottom.
What?
Price-timeline h4 small.
Here we go.
Color: white.
Font-weight: bold.
And display: block.
Now let's check this out.
We're gonna look good here.
Woo!
There we go.
See the small?
Looks good.
Prices looking good.
Just a couple more things here.
Up here, in our hero, right after hero,
let's style that hero article.
We're gonna do something here,
width 100%, text-align center.
So it's gonna center
everything right here.
There we go.
So that's centered.
We're looking good.
One more little thing here.
That font, that should be bold.
So, let me go ahead and do that.
Scroll up here to your global styles,
and we're gonna do a few things.
Go under your headings there,
and let's give the button class
font weight of bold, so we're gonna
override some of this Bootstrap CSS, and
we're gonna say btn-danger, and
that will be background-color #dd5638,
which is our salmon color.
And border,
color will just be a little bit darker so
#d95131 Save.
Check it out.
There we go, that looks good.
Okay, there is our hero section.
Let me do just a really
quick ninja overview.
Because we covered a lot in this one.
So we added our CSS,
we added a whole bunch of CSS here,
feel free to go back and
go through it again because it was a lot.
We added some HTML here for
the header, and then we styled it up.
So, looks good.
Hopefully that didn't make your head hurt
and I'll see you in the next lecture
where we will learn to do
the parallax effect for this section.
See you there.
[MUSIC]